GENERAL DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION

HUNG YEN PROVINCE TAX DEPARTMENT
________________

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
________________________

No: 2285 / CTHYE-TTHT
Regarding depreciation costs when investing
  in upgrading fixed assets

Hung Yen, June 5, 2024

To: Hamaden Vietnam Co., Ltd.
Address: Lot A4, Thang Long II Industrial Park, Lieu Xa Commune,
  Yen My District, Hung Yen Province. Tax Code: 0900293253.

 

Responding to Document No. 2405/2024/CV/HDVN dated May 24, 2024 of Hamaden Vietnam Co., Ltd. on upgrading fixed assets, the Tax Department of Hung Yen province has the following comments:

Pursuant to Circular No. 45/2013/TT-BTC dated April 25, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance guiding the management, use and depreciation of fixed assets:

- Clause 14, Article 2 stipulates:

“14. Upgrading fixed assets: is the activity of renovating, constructing, and adding equipment to fixed assets to increase capacity, product quality, and functionality of fixed assets compared to the original level or to extend the usage time of fixed assets; applying new production technology processes to reduce operating costs of fixed assets compared to before.”

- Clause 1, Article 7 stipulates:

“1. The costs that a business spends to invest in upgrading fixed assets are reflected as an increase in the original price of that fixed asset. These costs cannot be included in the production and business costs of the period.”

- Article 10 stipulates:

“Article 10. Determining depreciation time of tangible fixed assets:

1. For new (unused) fixed assets, enterprises must base on the fixed asset depreciation time frame specified in Appendix 1 issued with this Circular to determine the depreciation time of fixed assets.

2. For used fixed assets, the depreciation period of fixed assets is determined as follows:

Depreciation period of fixed assets

=

Fair value of fixed assets

x

Depreciation period of new fixed assets of the same type is determined according to Appendix 1 (issued with this Circular)

Selling price of 100% new fixed assets of the same type (or of equivalent fixed assets on the market)

In which: The fair value of fixed assets is the actual purchase or exchange price (in case of purchase and sale, exchange), the remaining value of fixed assets or the value according to the assessment of an organization with the function of valuation (in case of being given, gifted, gifted, granted, transferred) and other cases.

3. Change the depreciation period of fixed assets:

a) In case an enterprise wants to determine the depreciation period of new and used fixed assets different from the depreciation period prescribed in Appendix 1 issued with this Circular, the enterprise must prepare a plan to change the depreciation period of fixed assets based on a clear explanation of the following contents:

- Technical life of fixed assets according to design;

- Current status of fixed assets (time of use of fixed assets, generation of assets, actual status of assets);

- Impact of increasing or decreasing depreciation of fixed assets on production and business results and capital sources to repay debts of credit institutions.

- For assets formed from investment projects in the form of BOT, BCC, the enterprise must supplement the signed Contract with the investor.

b) Authority to approve the Plan to change the depreciation period of fixed assets:

- The Ministry of Finance approves:

+ Parent companies of economic groups, corporations, and companies in which the state holds 51% or more of charter capital and are established by decision of ministries, branches, and the Prime Minister.

+ Subsidiaries in which the parent company of an economic group or corporation holds 51% or more of charter capital.

- The Department of Finance of provinces and centrally run cities approves the Corporations and independent companies established by the People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities, and enterprises of other economic sectors with headquarters in the area.

Based on the Plan for changing the depreciation period of fixed assets approved by competent authorities, within 20 days from the date of approval of the Plan, the enterprise must notify the tax authority directly managing it for monitoring and management.

c) Enterprises are only allowed to change the depreciation period of fixed assets once for an asset. The extension of the depreciation period of fixed assets must not exceed the technical life of the fixed assets and must not change the business results of the enterprise from profit to loss or vice versa in the year of the decision to change. In case an enterprise changes the depreciation period of fixed assets in violation of regulations, the Ministry of Finance or the tax authority directly managing the enterprise shall request the enterprise to re-determine in accordance with regulations.”

4. In case there are factors (such as upgrading or dismantling one or several parts of a fixed asset) to extend or shorten the previously determined usage time of the fixed asset, the enterprise shall re-determine the depreciation time of the fixed asset according to the three above-mentioned standards at the time of completing the arising business, and must also make a record stating the grounds for changing the depreciation time, and submit it to the competent authority for decision according to the provisions in Section b, Clause 3 of this Article.”

Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance amends and supplements Clause 1, Section d, Point 2.2, Clause 2, Article 6 of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC stipulates deductible and non-deductible expenses when determining taxable income of corporate income tax as follows:

“1. Except for the non-deductible expenses specified in Clause 2 of this Article, enterprises are allowed to deduct all expenses if they meet the following conditions:

a) Actual expenses incurred related to the production and business activities of the enterprise.

b) Expenditures have sufficient invoices and legal documents as prescribed by law.

c) Expenses for goods and services purchased for a single time with a value of 20 million VND or more (price including VAT) must have a non-cash payment document when paying.

...”

“2. Expenses that are not deductible when determining taxable income include:

...

2.2. Depreciation of fixed assets falls into one of the following cases:

...

d) The depreciation portion exceeds the current regulations of the Ministry of Finance on the management, use and depreciation of fixed assets.

...”

Based on the above provisions, in case Hamaden Vietnam Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Company) invests in upgrading fixed assets, these investment expenses are reflected as an increase in the original cost of fixed assets.

The Company shall re-determine the depreciation period in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of Circular No. 45/2013/TT-BTC dated April 25, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance . The Company shall only change the depreciation period of fixed assets once for an asset. The extension of the depreciation period of fixed assets shall ensure that it does not exceed the technical life of the fixed assets and does not change the business results of the enterprise from profit to loss or vice versa in the year of the decision to change.

In case the fixed asset depreciation expense meets the conditions specified in Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance, it will be included in deductible expenses when determining taxable income for corporate income tax.

Hung Yen Provincial Tax Department replies to Hamaden Vietnam Co., Ltd. to know and implement./.

Recipients:
- As above;
- Department leaders;
- Department of Information and Communications 1,2,3,4,
KKKTT, NVDTPC;
- Tax Department website;
- File: VT, TTHT. Loan

 

KT. DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR






Le Duc Thuan