GENERAL DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION
HANOI CITY TAX DEPARTMENT
-------

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

No: 79557 /CT-TTHT Regarding corporate income tax and personal income tax on allowances for employees.

Hanoi , December 3 , 2018

 

Dear: Long River Construction Company Ltd. Address: No. 163 Ba Trieu, Le Dai Hanh Ward , Hai Ba Trung District, Hanoi City Tax Code: 0106323184


Responding to Official Dispatch No. 161118/CV-18 dated November 16, 2018 of Long River Construction Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Company) asking about personal income tax and corporate income tax on allowances paid to employees, Hanoi Tax Department has the following opinion:

- Pursuant to Clause 2, Article 2 of Circular No. 111/2013/TT-BTC dated August 15, 2013 (amended and supplemented in Clause 2, Article 11 of Circular No. 92/2015/TT-BTC dated June 15, 2015) of the Ministry of Finance guiding income from salaries and wages:

“2. Income from wages and salaries

Income from wages and salaries is the income that employees receive from their employers, including:

a) Salaries, wages and amounts of salary or wage nature in cash or non-cash forms .

b) Allowances and subsidies, except for the following allowances and subsidies:

...d) Benefits in cash or non-cash other than salary and wages paid by the employer that the taxpayer is entitled to in any form :

. ..4) The lump sum expenses for office supplies, business expenses , telephone, uniforms, etc. are higher than the current regulations of the State. The lump sum expenses are not included in taxable income in the following cases:

Article 4.1) For cadres, civil servants and people working in administrative agencies, Party, mass organizations , Unions and Associations: the fixed expenditure level is applied according to the guidance document of the Ministry of Finance.

Article 4.2) For employees working in business organizations and representative offices : the applicable lump sum level is consistent with the level of determining taxable income subject to corporate income tax according to documents guiding the implementation of the Law on Corporate Income Tax.

Article 4.3) For employees working in international organizations and representative offices of foreign organizations: the lump sum expenditure level is implemented according to the regulations of the international organization and representative office of foreign organization...."

- Pursuant to Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 amending and supplementing Article 6 of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC providing guidance on deductible and non-deductible expenses when determining taxable income of CIT:

“ 1. Except for non- deductible expenses specified in Clause 2 of this Article, enterprises are allowed to deduct all expenses if they meet the following conditions:

a) Actual expenses incurred related to the production and business activities of the enterprise.

b) Expenses have sufficient invoices and legal documents as prescribed by law .

c ) Expenses for purchasing goods and services with a value of 20 million VND or more (price including VAT) must have a non-cash payment document when paying.

2. Expenses that are not deductible when determining taxable income include :

...2.6. Paying salaries, wages, and bonuses to employees in one of the following cases:

...b) Salaries, bonuses, and life insurance expenses for employees whose eligibility conditions and levels are not specifically stated in one of the following documents: Labor contract; Collective labor agreement ; Financial regulations of the Company, Corporation, Group; Bonus regulations prescribed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, General Director , Director according to the financial regulations of the Company, Corporation .

...- In case an enterprise signs a labor contract with an employee which includes a housing expense paid by the enterprise to the employee, this payment is of the nature of salary or wages and has full invoices and documents according to regulations, it will be included in deductible expenses when determining income subject to corporate income tax.

...2.9. Paying travel allowance for leave not in accordance with the provisions of the Labor Code.

Allowances for employees on business trips , travel expenses and accommodation for employees on business trips, if there are full invoices and documents, are included in deductible expenses when determining taxable income. In case the enterprise has a contract for travel expenses, accommodation expenses, and allowances for employees on business trips and implements them in accordance with the financial regulations or internal regulations of the enterprise, the contract for travel expenses, accommodation expenses, and allowances ... will be included in deductible expenses .

Based on the above regulations, in case the Company pays allowances for house rent, gasoline (from home to the company at a fixed monthly rate), telephone, and diligence allowances to employees, the conditions for enjoyment and the level of enjoyment are specifically recorded in one of the following documents: Labor contract; Collective labor agreement; Financial regulations of the Company, Corporation, Group; Bonus regulations prescribed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, General Director, Director according to the financial regulations of the Company, Corporation then :

Regarding house rent allowance, gasoline allowance, and diligence allowance : The Company is allowed to account for deductible expenses when determining taxable income of corporate income if it meets the provisions of Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC and includes it in the taxable income of personal income of employees.

Regarding telephone allowance: the fixed amount of telephone allowance for individuals is included in deductible expenses when determining taxable income of corporate income tax according to the provisions of the Law on Corporate Income Tax and is deductible when determining taxable income of personal income tax.

In case the Company spends more on telephone bills for employees than the prescribed lump sum, the portion of the expenditure exceeding the prescribed lump sum must be included in taxable income.

Hanoi Tax Department replies so that the Company can know and implement./ .

 


Recipients:
- As above;
-Tax Inspection Department No. 1;
-FraudDepartment; -File: VT,TTHT2).

KT. DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR




Mai Son